The Joe Rogan.
Experience. You know, it's like they think that about football helmets too,
that they would actually be a safer game.
If they couldn't clash heads with a helmet on that, they wouldn't do it.
They wouldn't play like that.
That's just not true with them. Clashing skills. It's not safer.
Sure. Matches.
But the idea is that the only reason why they play that way is cause the helmets
and the foot shoulder gear. If you took that stuff away,
they wouldn't play like that.
And the day they had, they barely had any pads and, you know,
thirties or forties or whatever,
when they were playing with those little tiny helmets.
Oh, that game, if you were an outsider, like if you didn't know how big it was,
like,
if you didn't understand anything about the cultural significance football and
they showed you all the brain damage and they showed you what it is,
you'd be like, oh yeah, make that illegal.
Yeah. Probably if anything should be illegal, stop.
Doing that. Kids will run into each other. They'll smash heads.
The concept of defensive offensive line. Just the idea of as the funniest thing,
Susie say go just clunk heads with another unit.
Of course we don't want it to be illegal. And it's a fun thing to watch.
And it's a great way for some guys to make a load of money and weigh the risks
versus the rule.
It's a bunch of middle-schoolers are snapping their necks and Michael will never
play football.
We're going to stop. They could,
then they could illegalize MMA with that justification.
'Cause we, we punching and kicking is so inherently violent.
That's where we see it as being this violent act, right? That it's we go,
oh fighting. That's like crazy. That's the most violent sport,
but it's so much less of a dangerous sport than football football.
These guys are just running head first at each other. And every one of them,
every one of them has major, major issue.
Blindsided and football. You know,
you'll have your eye on someone and then you get head to head taken out from
someone else that doesn't happen as much in MMA. But I mean,
when people get like head kick knocked unconscious,
that's not good for your brain.
No, but how often are football players being concussed,
just smash each other and then they get up and they just do it again. And again,
and again.
They're a little bit stricter, I think on like, if you get a concussion, they,
they won't put you back in at least the way they used to, like when I was a kid,
but it's still.
But I think fighters are what getting concussed once every F you know,
once a year, if they're getting knocked out once a year, I mean, you know.
But there's also sub-concussive trial. It seems to be the problem with CTE.
It's not just the knockouts. It's just the thumps over and over again,
over and over and over and.
Training sparring, these guys.
So think that's the real problem.
That's why also soccer players are getting it right.
Soccer players are starting to get CTS.
What's worse, like getting like a Conor McGregor, one punch knockout,
or fighting Nick Diaz and just getting like butter for five.
Rounds. Probably you're probably better off getting one punch.
Knockouts. The.
Better than you. Probably better off getting dropped.
I'm getting beat up by Nick Diaz for 15 minutes to suck.
It. Wasn't the initial argument about MMA being safer than boxing is that it's
not so much. So, you know,
with the gloves being bigger and boxing and all that stuff,
that's actually worse because.
You're going to keep taking too many shots count as well.
You can get knocked down and then get up and go, right.
You be concussed and like, all right, keep on fighting. Um, whereas in MMA,
they'll stop it. If you, if you're not defending.
That's probably definitely better. Yeah.
The thing about eight counts and 10 counseling,
but people have gotten off the deck and had amazing performances.
So you'd ever want to stop it. Like, look at Tyson.
Fury gets off the deck twice against Deontay Wilder and MMA,
that fight would have been stopped. Right? So it's like one of those,
particularly the last round, when he dropped him,
he would have definitely punched him a few times and he would have been out cold
cause he was flat on his back, um, in MMA,
that would be the end of the fight. And we are lucky.
It wasn't cause he got up like a superhero and even won the rest of
the round. He outbox him for the rest of the round.
He survived the initial barrage and then started catching him as he was coming
in. And as Deontay was being reckless, he caught him one time, like stung him.
And you're like, holy, he's winning this round.
Now that he's winning the rest of the round after getting almost obliterated.
So there's an argument that that's better, the crazy.
Entertainment value.
But the crazy thing from the CTE like perspective about boxing to me is that
people will get hit and then they get hit and grab someone.
Cause that's just everyone's instinct and they grab them and then you have a
little record goes, no, no, no, no, no, no. Keep, keep punching the heads.
Like don't do anything to avoid from hitting. No, no, no, no. Step it back out.
And then they, and that in MMA, you'll see a lot, someone get hit and then,
you know,
they get into a clinch and you get a few minutes in a clinch where they're kind
of like, okay, I'm not taking all the damage right now.
But the smart thing about that is that's how you're supposed to fight.
Like you're giving people options to defend themselves. It shouldn't be,
you can't defend yourself other than punching back.
That seems like it seems kind of crazy,
but I could grab them and just stop these punches. No, no, no.
Against the rules and what kind of rules do we have? Like,
you can only beat me up if I let you beat me.
That was one of the points that they dance around for an half hour.
But do you remember the original?
There was like Gracie videos that they'd make an early UFC and what they used to
say all the time was, and it's so true.
It was so interesting is that if two boxers just have a street fight,
they're going into a clinch.
And it's probably going to end up on the ground at some point because the ref
has to break up a clench over and over and over again to make boxing happen.
Like even when,
even when you're a professional boxer and you don't know anything about
wrestling or grappling, you still end up grabbing the other guy.
Cause that's just like.
The only time that doesn't take places will one guy knows how to strike and the
other guy doesn't and you see a lot of those videos online where two dudes
decided to get into some sort of a street altercation.
And one guy actually is like a boxer and clap and he catches the guy and the guy
falls and bounces his head off the concrete out cold.
There's a bunch of those that's bad. That's different.
See the thing about the Gracie jiu-jitsu is like,
you've got to always be aware of this. People like that out there.
There's there's always guys who can punch you in the face and if they know how
to wrestle too,
and they can keep you away and just keep punching you in the face,
you better know how to take them down.
The. Did 2019, do you have,
[inaudible] going to look at their ears. You gotta look for little signs.
Look in their eyes, shake their hand.
Skinny necks. Aren't getting choked as far as a skill.
Like definitely a.
Weird time for fighting. You know, it's like, and we, we both,
I like both kinds. I like just stand up only fights.
I like watching those and I liked mixed martial arts fights, but I think like,
uh, Terrence, Crawford's coming on next.
And I think watching someone like him box,
like when you see the skill level that that guy has at stances,
doing all kinds of befuddling people getting their range,
figuring them out and then just teeing them up with perfect timing.
Like that's almost only possible that kind of artistry, if there's no wrestling,
right? There's no leg kicks. If there's only the boxing, that's the only way.
See that like that,
that kind of like beautiful comedy cause otherwise you would do other too.
You would leg kick. You would try to take them down. And that. So like the,
the level of dominance that a real Floyd Mayweather,
a real world champion boxer has with their hands.
It's hard to really appreciate until you see it live. And you know,
like what you're seeing, like if you're in, in the, the building with a guy,
who's beating somebody up on their sparring, it's like, you're oh, like this is,
you guys are playing two totally different games.
Boxing. It's like, I literally look at boxing as like very much a sport.
And I think MMA is the closest thing that we have to competitive
fighting a hundred percent. That's sort of like the difference it's, you know,
all things considered. It's still not fighting.
You can't grab somebody's balls and yank them off their body and bite their
nose. I know just being able to [inaudible].
You couldn't bite and you couldn't. I gouge hit him with a.
Trash can with.
And he can't be you can't fish hook. And then,
but you used to be able to punch the ball.
So it was a great video of Keith Hackney fighting Joe song. Joe sawn got,
got him in a headlock and Keke fact, and he's just hammering his deck. I mean,
full blast over and over. And you see like, Joe, sons' like going into shock.
It's a few of them. And he's like, I'm not letting go of this choke the fourth,
fifth Dick punch. It's like, this.
Is all over man. He does a drained.
Was he who was had, was it chemo? Was he head budding, hoist grace
dude, that was brutal.
Rudel. There was a lot of head button back in the days,
it was an effective weapon and it makes us like, oh, that's awful.
But small finger locks with all these other bones,
how come you're allowed to hit with these bones?
But you can't hit with that bone.
I would rather be headbutted by a guy that I don't give a there's no,
there's not much technique. Head headbutting.
I would rather be head about it than be head kicked by a dude who knows how to
headcase.
Can you think there's no tech, but there really is.
There's guys that spar and they fight and left way and left the ways a
type of, uh, Moya tie where they put ropes, uh, over their knuckles.
That's the only thing they have and they're allowed to headbutt and it's some
wild. And they do headbutt combinations on the pad. Like, they'll do a tap,
tap bang. They'll like use their head and train it. Wow.
Learn how TV and find that left the way.
W E I T L U T H D. You know,
who does commentary for it is our friend, Robin black. He does, uh,
he does commentary for less way,
but this is a brutal form of boy where you're allowed to head,
but they cause they already elbow. And I think they, you know, they're thinking,
well, if I can knee and if I can do all these things, why can't I head?
But it's right there. He's faces right there. Well, you remember what, uh,
what Mark Coleman used to do?
Like he got a full season before the headbutts were illegal, dude. He would,
he would smash people with the headbutts.
So here we'll get this dude with this combination. Watch that.
So this is a Robin, Robin black breakdown. When he, he goes,
this dude goes off to the side, pushes the dude's head away,
and then immediately comes in with a perfect head. But boom,
just slamming him in the face on purpose with the top of his head.
So he's trying to hit like his eyes and his nose and the soft tissue.
He's trying to hit that with the hard part of his forehead that.
I think that will do a lot more damage than a fist.
But again, he only works one out of every thousand times, man. No, no, no, no.
This guy does it a lot. And if you do it this way, the way he's doing it,
you taking a really hard part of your forehead and you're smashing against a
soft part of the eyes and the nose. This part of your forehead is hard as,
man. Most guys who break their hand in fights break their hands off of the head,
especially boxing.